Different Data Structures in Python

1. Stack Data Structure 
A stack is a linear data structure that follows the principle of Last In First Out (LIFO). This means the last element inserted inside the stack is removed first.

LIFO Principle of Stack
In programming terms, putting an item on top of the stack is called push and removing an item is called pop.

2. Queue Data Structure 
A queue is a useful data structure in programming. It is similar to the ticket queue outside a cinema hall, where the first person entering the queue is the first person who gets the ticket.

Queue follows the First In First Out (FIFO) rule - the item that goes in first is the item that comes out first.
In programming terms, putting items in the queue is called enqueue, and removing items from the queue is called dequeue.


3. Linked List Data Structure
A linked list is a linear data structure that includes a series of connected nodes. Here, each node store the data and the address of the next node.Linked lists can be of multiple types: singly, doubly, and circular linked list. 


4. Tree Data Structure
A tree is a nonlinear hierarchical data structure that consists of nodes connected by edges.
Other data structures such as arrays, linked list, stack, and queue are linear data structures that store data sequentially. In order to perform any operation in a linear data structure, the time complexity increases with the increase in the data size. But, it is not acceptable in today's computational world.

Different tree data structures allow quicker and easier access to the data as it is a non-linear data structure.
A collection of disjoint trees is called a forest.

Tree Applications
Binary Search Trees(BSTs) are used to quickly check whether an element is present in a set or not.

Heap is a kind of tree that is used for heap sort.

A modified version of a tree called Tries is used in modern routers to store routing information.

Most popular databases use B-Trees and T-Trees, which are variants of the tree structure we learned above to store their data
Compilers use a syntax tree to validate the syntax of every program you write.


5.  Graph Data Structure
A graph data structure is a collection of nodes that have data and are connected to other nodes.

Let's try to understand this through an example. On facebook, everything is a node. That includes User, Photo, Album, Event, Group, Page, Comment, Story, Video, Link, Note...anything that has data is a node.

Every relationship is an edge from one node to another. Whether you post a photo, join a group, like a page, etc., a new edge is created for that relationship.All of facebook is then a collection of these nodes and edges. This is because facebook uses a graph data structure to store its data.

